src/main/asciidoc/reference/mongo-3.adoc, before:

[[mongo.mongo-3]]
= MongoDB 3.0 Support

Spring Data MongoDB allows usage of both MongoDB Java driver generations 2 and 3 when connecting to a MongoDB 2.6/3.0 server running _MMap.v1_ or a MongoDB server 3.0 using _MMap.v1_ or the _WiredTiger_ storage engine.

NOTE: Please refer to the driver and database specific documentation for major differences between those.

NOTE: Operations that are no longer valid using a 3.x MongoDB Java driver have been deprecated within Spring Data and will be removed in a subsequent release.

== Using Spring Data MongoDB with MongoDB 3.0

[[mongo.mongo-3.configuration]]
=== Configuration Options

Some of the configuration options have been changed / removed for the _mongo-java-driver_. The following options will be ignored using the generation 3 driver:

 * autoConnectRetry
 * maxAutoConnectRetryTime
 * slaveOk

Generally it is recommended to use the `<mongo:mongo-client ... />` and `<mongo:client-options ... />` elements instead of `<mongo:mongo ... />` when doing XML based configuration, since those elements will only provide you with attributes valid for the 3 generation java driver.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:mongo="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo/spring-mongo.xsd
		http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd">

  <mongo:mongo-client host="127.0.0.1" port="27017">
    <mongo:client-options write-concern="NORMAL" />
  </mongo:mongo-client>

</beans>
----

[[mongo.mongo-3.write-concern]]
=== WriteConcern and WriteConcernChecking

The `WriteConcern.NONE`, which had been used as default by Spring Data MongoDB, was removed in 3.0. Therefore in a MongoDB 3 environment the `WriteConcern` will be defaulted to `WriteConcern.UNACKNOWLEGED`. In case `WriteResultChecking.EXCEPTION` is enabled the `WriteConcern` will be altered to `WriteConcern.ACKNOWLEDGED` for write operations, as otherwise errors during execution would not be throw correctly, since simply not raised by the driver.

[[mongo.mongo-3.authentication]]
=== Authentication

MongoDB Server generation 3 changed the authentication model when connecting to the DB. Therefore some of the configuration options available for authentication are no longer valid. Please use the `MongoClient` specific options for setting credentials via `MongoCredential` to provide authentication data.

[source,java]
----
@Configuration
public class ApplicationContextEventTestsAppConfig extends AbstractMongoConfiguration {

  @Override
  public String getDatabaseName() {
    return "database";
  }

  @Override
  @Bean
  public MongoClient mongoClient() {
    return new MongoClient(singletonList(new ServerAddress("127.0.0.1", 27017)),
      singletonList(MongoCredential.createCredential("name", "db", "pwd".toCharArray())));
  }
}
----

In order to use authentication with XML configuration use the `credentials` attribue on `<mongo-client>`.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:mongo="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo/spring-mongo.xsd
		http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd">

  <mongo:mongo-client credentials="user:password@database" />

</beans>
----

[[mongo.mongo-3.validation]]
=== Server-side Validation

MongoDB supports https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/schema-validation/[Schema Validation] as of version 3.2 with query operators
and as of version 3.6 JSON-schema based validation.

This chapter will point out the specialties for validation in MongoDB and how to apply JSON schema validation.

[[mongo.mongo-3.validation.json-schema]]
==== JSON Schema Validation

MongoDB 3.6 allows validation and querying of documents using JSON schema draft 4 including core specification and validation specification, with some differences. `$jsonSchema` can be used in a document validator (when creating a collection), which enforces that inserted or updated documents are valid against the schema. It can also be used to query for documents with the `find` command or `$match` aggregation stage.

Spring Data MongoDB supports MongoDB's specific JSON schema implementation to define and use schemas. See <<mongo.jsonSchema,JSON Schema>> for further details.

[[mongo.mongo-3.misc]]
=== Other things to be aware of

This section covers additional things to keep in mind when using the 3.0 driver.

* `IndexOperations.resetIndexCache()` is no longer supported.
* Any `MapReduceOptions.extraOption` is silently ignored.
* `WriteResult` does not longer hold error information but throws an Exception.
* `MongoOperations.executeInSession(…)` no longer calls `requestStart` / `requestDone`.
* Index name generation has become a driver internal operations, still we use the 2.x schema to generate names.
* Some Exception messages differ between the generation 2 and 3 servers as well as between _MMap.v1_ and _WiredTiger_ storage engine.

Commit message:

DATAMONGO-1322 - Polishing.
Remove ValidationAction/Level and ValidationOptions duplicates. Rename ValidatorDefinition to Validator and Validator to ValidationOptions.
Update and rename some of the tests. Also make sure to run the created validator document through the QueryMapper for value conversion and potential field mappings. Streamline Validator usage by providing plain Document and JsonSchema validator options next to the Criteria based one.
Finally update the reference documentation.

Original pull request: #525.
Related pull request: #511.
Related ticket: DATACMNS-1835.

src/main/asciidoc/reference/mongo-3.adoc, after:

[[mongo.mongo-3]]
= MongoDB 3.0 Support

Spring Data MongoDB allows usage of both MongoDB Java driver generations 2 and 3 when connecting to a MongoDB 2.6/3.0 server running _MMap.v1_ or a MongoDB server 3.0 using _MMap.v1_ or the _WiredTiger_ storage engine.

NOTE: Please refer to the driver and database specific documentation for major differences between those.

NOTE: Operations that are no longer valid using a 3.x MongoDB Java driver have been deprecated within Spring Data and will be removed in a subsequent release.

== Using Spring Data MongoDB with MongoDB 3.0

[[mongo.mongo-3.configuration]]
=== Configuration Options

Some of the configuration options have been changed / removed for the _mongo-java-driver_. The following options will be ignored using the generation 3 driver:

 * autoConnectRetry
 * maxAutoConnectRetryTime
 * slaveOk

Generally it is recommended to use the `<mongo:mongo-client ... />` and `<mongo:client-options ... />` elements instead of `<mongo:mongo ... />` when doing XML based configuration, since those elements will only provide you with attributes valid for the 3 generation java driver.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:mongo="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo/spring-mongo.xsd
		http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd">

  <mongo:mongo-client host="127.0.0.1" port="27017">
    <mongo:client-options write-concern="NORMAL" />
  </mongo:mongo-client>

</beans>
----

[[mongo.mongo-3.write-concern]]
=== WriteConcern and WriteConcernChecking

The `WriteConcern.NONE`, which had been used as default by Spring Data MongoDB, was removed in 3.0. Therefore in a MongoDB 3 environment the `WriteConcern` will be defaulted to `WriteConcern.UNACKNOWLEGED`. In case `WriteResultChecking.EXCEPTION` is enabled the `WriteConcern` will be altered to `WriteConcern.ACKNOWLEDGED` for write operations, as otherwise errors during execution would not be throw correctly, since simply not raised by the driver.

[[mongo.mongo-3.authentication]]
=== Authentication

MongoDB Server generation 3 changed the authentication model when connecting to the DB. Therefore some of the configuration options available for authentication are no longer valid. Please use the `MongoClient` specific options for setting credentials via `MongoCredential` to provide authentication data.

[source,java]
----
@Configuration
public class ApplicationContextEventTestsAppConfig extends AbstractMongoConfiguration {

  @Override
  public String getDatabaseName() {
    return "database";
  }

  @Override
  @Bean
  public MongoClient mongoClient() {
    return new MongoClient(singletonList(new ServerAddress("127.0.0.1", 27017)),
      singletonList(MongoCredential.createCredential("name", "db", "pwd".toCharArray())));
  }
}
----

In order to use authentication with XML configuration use the `credentials` attribue on `<mongo-client>`.

[source,xml]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:mongo="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo http://www.springframework.org/schema/data/mongo/spring-mongo.xsd
		http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans.xsd">

  <mongo:mongo-client credentials="user:password@database" />

</beans>
----

[[mongo.mongo-3.validation]]
=== Server-side Validation

MongoDB supports https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/schema-validation/[Schema Validation] as of version 3.2 with query operators
and as of version 3.6 JSON-schema based validation.

This chapter will point out the specialties for validation in MongoDB and how to apply JSON schema validation.

[[mongo.mongo-3.validation.json-schema]]
==== JSON Schema Validation

MongoDB 3.6 allows validation and querying of documents using JSON schema draft 4 including core specification and validation specification, with some differences. `$jsonSchema` can be used in a document validator (when creating a collection), which enforces that inserted or updated documents are valid against the schema. It can also be used to query for documents with the `find` command or `$match` aggregation stage.

Spring Data MongoDB supports MongoDB's specific JSON schema implementation to define and use schemas. See <<mongo.jsonSchema,JSON Schema>> for further details.

[[mongo.mongo-3.validation.query-expression]]
==== Query Expression Validation

Next to the <<mongo.mongo-3.validation.json-schema>> as of version 3.2 MongoDB supports validating documents against a given query structure. The structure can be built using `Criteria` objects just the same way as they are used for defining queries.

[source,java]
----
Criteria queryExpression = Criteria.where("lastname").ne(null).type(2)
    .and("age").ne(null).type(16).gt(0).lte(150);

Validator validator = Validator.criteria(queryExpression);

template.createCollection(Person.class, CollectionOptions.empty().validator(validator));
----

NOTE: Field names used within the query expression are mapped to the domain types property names taking potential `@Field` annotations into account.

[[mongo.mongo-3.misc]]
=== Other things to be aware of

This section covers additional things to keep in mind when using the 3.0 driver.

* `IndexOperations.resetIndexCache()` is no longer supported.
* Any `MapReduceOptions.extraOption` is silently ignored.
* `WriteResult` does not longer hold error information but throws an Exception.
* `MongoOperations.executeInSession(…)` no longer calls `requestStart` / `requestDone`.
* Index name generation has become a driver internal operations, still we use the 2.x schema to generate names.
* Some Exception messages differ between the generation 2 and 3 servers as well as between _MMap.v1_ and _WiredTiger_ storage engine.
